In this lesson, we'll explore options for adding an interactive map to the contact page, you create
a Google Maps embed code first, but see its limitations in the sandbox because it's a multi-site network
which limits code to keep the network safe.
Then you'll configure a map plugin to make it work and check out the advantages.
By the end of this video, you'll understand two ways to embed a map on a page and also how to use a
map plugin that can have more than one location marker, among other benefits.
Let's add one more nice customization to this contact us page, which is to add an interactive dynamic
map into the page.
And let's do this the easy way to start with, you know, the difference between, you know, a block
based theme here and the site editor and, you know, more traditional or backwards compatible theme
that we're going to learn in the next sections is that it's not quite as easy to add any code or, you
know, change what the theme is providing as far as templates, blocks and block patterns.
But if we take a look, if we're going to add a map right here, let's just go ahead and go back to
the page itself.
And with that in mind, let's look at this contact us page.
And, you know, below the contact us form, of course, up here, we could put the name and I mean
the address and phone number, et cetera, something like that.
Now there's one thing you could do, which is really to add an image of a map, but I'm talking about,
you know, Dragonball interactive map.
I wonder if there's any map blocks?
Nope.
Let's browse all the maps, browse all the blocks and just make sure no, no map black included in WordPress
is there.
What about black patterns?
So there's a footer general Twitter page query.
We didn't really look at this yet, but here's the interesting thing.
All those things that we saw in the Frost Peacock website are available for us to click and put in here.
And so one thing you could do is, you know, expand the footer with a call to action like this where
if you want a lot of text with links in the footer, this is the footer that we have currently.
I think, pretty simple footer.
Here's one with some social icons, cetera but say under general, you know, the theme is providing
us with all these block patterns that we can use as part of our site design, you can see there even
more versions like six items you know, or four items right here.
Bigger pricing table Here's one that's interesting a podcast episode with an audio player, but in any
case, there's whole pages that we can pull in.
A homepage, a link page and a dark link page.
A query block.
Of course, something that brings in blog posts.
Here's what we saw in the demo straight single column blog archive, which shows posts.
This one is a grid of posts in three columns, and then here's a list of posts using three columns for
the date and other information meta information on the right and the post content in the middle.
But nothing that's like a map is there.
So let's close that down.
And as far as blocks go, one of the things that we can put in here is some code, some embedded code.
So either custom HTML or code now code is to display some code snippets on the website without having
the website execute that code.
And so that might be for a technical website where you want to display code for the users to be able
to copy and paste it or to view the code.
Like I said, without executing it.
But if we're going to paste some code like a Google Map embed code, for example, we would use a custom
HTML block.
And so we could write the HTML within that block and just paste it there.
So let's go ahead, and I'm just going to go to Google.com.
I'm going to go over to Google Maps.
Let's click right here, and let's see.
Here's my little town in Colorado.
And, you know, I could just say, let's see.
South Park City is a nice living museum.
So if I South Park City Museum, what I can do is kind of arrange this and then in Google Maps, you
know, all you need to do is click share and click the Embed a Map tab.
And now we've got a nice, embeddable map.
And here's an example of what it would look like.
This is an iframe that you can paste and you can copy that HTML.
So right here, you can use your mouse to zoom in or zoom out.
And whatever you'd like to do, kind of frame your map up like that because I searched for it up here,
it shows this little card at the top left and I could just say copy HTML.
And if I go back into the HTML, let's paste that right in there.
Click Update.
Let's see what that's going to look like.
On the contact page.
And now, if you're working like I am in the student sandbox, which is a multi-site network, you'll
see that the map does not show up and there's a very good reason for that.
And that is because it's stripped out the iframe code instead of allowing it to execute on the front
end of the site.
And that's to prevent in the multi-site network anyone from pasting or posting any code that would execute
and affect other sites on the network.
And so you can't really post any iframe code into a network.
Now, if you were working on your own server at your own hosting and you have a single site installation,
this will definitely work.
And so let me just show you that real quick, and then I'll show you an alternative way to work in the
sandbox and get a working map into the the sites that you're creating here in the sandbox.
So I'm going to just go over here to Greg Davis dot com, where I'm already logged in and you know,
I've got a contact page over here.
Contact me, and this page just has a little bit of info and what I'll do is just go ahead and.
Insert a block, and I'm going to do this very same thing.
I'm going to look for custom HTML.
And I still have it on the on the clipboard, so if I paste that iframe code and click Update now,
if we go over and I look for the permalink and click view page, you can see on my contact page at Greg
Davis dot com.
I've got a great looking interactive map where I can zoom out or zoom in, et cetera.
I can get directions and this will work on mobile as well.
But that's probably the easiest way when you're working on your own site of embedding an interactive
Google map on your website.
But let's see what happens over here.
Also, you know, I wanted to just show you if we take a look at, you know, I did, this is saved,
right?
Yeah, now it previews it on the back end.
But if I go to this page and the map is not showing, I can actually see if I view the page source.
I could see the source code that is split out into the browser if I go down between the end of the fluent
form area and the beginning, the beginning of the footer.
You can see that there's just an empty space right here from, you know, lines 126 to 130 before the
last div and then the main content area of the site.
There's nothing there, so multi-site strips out the iframe code and it's just not usable in that way.
But let's show an alternative way to post an interactive map into a multi-site installation and allow
network users to do that.
And so back in the contact us page, let's look at an alternative if we just go ahead and remove that
custom HTML block and update.
Let's go back into the dashboard itself and let's go into plug ins.
This will be an alternative for the multistate network, but also it will be another way to embed an
interactive map.
But with more features than just your standard iframe code from Google Maps itself, this plug in that
I have installed and available to you in the network, it's called WP Google Maps, and there's a few
good Maps or Google Maps plug ins in the WordPress repository that are free.
One of the things that these allow you to do is have multiple markers and control.
You know what the markers and the flags look like and whether they're clickable and things like that.
And so go ahead and activate WP Google Maps, and then you can click Skip, Intro and create a map.
And then what we'll do is look at this, there's a new map here that we can go ahead and edit, and
that this is what is important about WP Google Maps.
And that is, instead of using the Google Maps API key, let's use the Open Layers API instead, and
it's just as powerful and just as useful.
However, now that Google Maps requires a payment method, so you have to set up a credit card and a
billing method in your Google account to be able to use the Maps API.
It may not cost you any money because they give you a credit every single month, and that credit is
about equivalent to several thousand map views.
You really would only need to use this if if you've got an interactive application with interactive
maps that are really needed, but it's quite complicated to get set up and so instead, choose the open
layers maps engine instead of the Google Maps API.
And that will make it free for you to use this plug in on any site that you want.
You don't have to sign up for an API or put a billing method in in the Google Maps API area.
Yeah, under settings you can, and the first thing that you see is Maps engine, and then you can choose
Google Maps or open layers.
And so we're using open layers.
And if you go to maps and then edit the map now we'll be able to configure the map that we're using.
And so the first thing you can do is just name the map.
I'm just going to put put Fairplay.
You can choose your zoom level, width and height, and let's just save the map for now.
And let's see, we can go to markers on the map and then we can add a new marker so you either put an
address or GPS coordinates right here.
And I'm just going to say Fairplay Co. and hit enter and see what happens.
There we go.
It gives me Oops.
It gives me some options right down here.
I could just say Fair Play, Colorado, USA, just to start with.
I don't need any animation or the info window open.
I could just say, add the marker.
And so it put a marker there.
There's already a marker here, says California.
It shows my existing markers down here so I can just remove that California one.
This is the one that I have, and now that I have a marker there, I can use control.
Oops, hold on control to Zoom the map and zoom and pan.
There's also some instructions right here.
So you can zoom in to right where you want.
Nice.
So maybe I have that map right there.
And you can add some other different things you can draw on the map.
You can use lines you can.
The pro version has heat maps.
You can have circles on there.
There's definitely some different things you can do.
And so markers, markers is is where you add these.
But the great thing about using this plug in is you can put multiple markers on a single map.
But anyway, once you have your map arranged to sell your desired location and your Zoom level and everything,
you can click Save Map.
And now we've got that map right there that we can embed on the web site, so I'll just click and it
says shortcode copied right there.
Now I can go over to pages and I can find my contact page and we'll put this map.
Now you remember what kind of block we need, it's a short code block.
Here we go.
Quick Update.
And now let's take a look at the page now.
OK, so we've got this situation where the map goes over the footer, and here's how it's solvable,
you know, on this contact page, I've just got the paragraph and then two shortcuts directly on the
page itself.
And if I just add, just add a group to contain the items.
So if I have a group.
And see this group, if I put the group.
I put everything within the group inside this group.
There we go.
And it puts this little arrow that shows the paragraph is in the group, the shortcode.
I want to put it, you see that little blue line there on the left.
It's shorter when it's inside the group, and I want to put both short codes inside the group.
And click Update now, I'm not I think that's not going to change anything yet.
Let's see.
It really, it just centers it like we saw before, but now I want to have this be like a kind of full
height.
And so if I selected this group over here for the block settings, I can click full height.
And now that will make the group contain above the footer.
It's if I click Save there.
Here we go.
Now I've got everything within a group and that's using a container on the page so that I can control
what things overlap and what things do not.
So that looks great.
And I opens open layers map right there.
I don't have to sign up for anything, and it also gives me more options for different markers.
You know, you can click on it.
You can control what this says, and it's close ebel, et cetera, as well as fullscreen and the Zoom
buttons.
And you can pan.
And if you try to use your scroll wheel just like Google Maps, it gives you this little control.
And if you press control, you can go ahead and zoom in and zoom out.